[music]
At around 11:30 in the evening, they
were all calling me proceed to Bomban.
I said, "What's happening?
People are escaping."
When we arrived there, I just informed
my personnel to just draw their guns and
make sure that nobody got out of the
compound. for
another
grade.
China
workers
stands for Philippine offshore gaming
operators. They offer gambling services
online to people overseas, particularly
in China. Many scam centers used purgos
as a front for human trafficking and
money laundering. But the layers of lies
and deceit in this case is really
shocking.
40 million peso villa wine seller gated
community
underground tunnels connecting
multi-million peso villas were also
found in the compound.
I knew how huge the operation was.
[screaming]
I just didn't realize that it was going
to be the mayor who was going to be the
biggest catch.
Ready? Let's go.
>> I just saw it as a small town mayor
probably on the take from Pogo Bosses,
but I didn't realize that it was bigger
than what I initially thought.
>> [music]
>> Fore! Foreign! Foreign!
Senior. your seat.
>> [music]
>> for
around 14 years old.
Uh
business,000
[music]
heads chicken.
Mayor
member 2022.
Three months
>> [cheering]
>> Proclamationally. for
Miami
GOAST
[cheering]
[music]
VICTORY PARTY. VICTORY PARTY.
ATALA,
the first ever lady mayor of the
municipality of
[music]
Taylor Alexi. battle.
Jollibee.
[music]
Fore
birthing station. Emergency hospital.
housekeeping. [music]
[music]
We actually started investigating
the phenomenon of pogos in 2019. Ours
was the first investigation on the
social problems and abuses surrounding
offshore gaming enterprises in the
Philippines. So, fast forward to [music]
2022, we got a phone call by a woman.
She told us that she and a number of
Filipinos were forced [music] to operate
love scams in Myanmar.
That was just the start because it
became clear to us that these operations
were across the region.
It was a [music] pattern. It was a
self-contained
very modern group of buildings in the
middle of nowhere. [music]
And then there would be a building that
would be used as dormatory and another
building that would be their workplace.
It would have karaoke and a number of
small food outlets.
And then while we were investigating
that, it came to our attention that the
pogos here were also being used as cam
compounds.
[music]
>> [music]
>> I have been covering banking and
financial crime for 10 years.
In recent years, we are seeing more and
more cases linked to scam compounds.
There were many types of scams. Some of
the scammers were told to deceive women,
pretending that they love that person
and try to get as much money from the
person. There's also official
impersonator scam where scammers pretend
to be a government official to trick
victims for money. It is all connected
where Singapore and many rich countries,
people are scammed and the scammers
would use people from emerging countries
to work.
Unfortunately, people who work at scam
centers are victims themselves. Many
have been tricked.
[music]
Fore!
Foreign! Foreign!
for
[music]
>> [music]
>> Fore!
[music]
Foreign! Foreign!
Fore!
[music]
You see a good number of Filipinos and
foreign nationals getting into Pogus not
knowing that they are being recruited to
become scammers and that's the most
benign form of human trafficking
associated to pogos because the worst
are the violent types. You've seen
tortures, killings, murders, name it.
Boo compound is basically the largest
Philippine offshore gaming operation
outside of Metro Manila. Bahu is the
corporation that controls the land.
We received a report from the
intelligence component of the armed
forces. They informed us of tortures
being conducted inside this particular
location inside Bamban.
[music]
I was trying to find a legal avenue to
be able to get into [music] the
compound. Then our Vietnamese national
was able to escape from Bomban
>> because they treat me so bad and I don't
want to be a scammer. They beat me. They
use hand and electric sock high bone. I
climb on the top of the wall and I jump
out the wall and I running for the
second one and I jump the river and keep
running.
He was looking for a chance to escape.
But then a security guard noticed that
he was looking around and the guard
pointed a gun at him. At that point, he
found an opening and he jumped [music]
and landed on an adjacent farm. The farm
owner took shelter of him.
I help you.
>> Later, the Vietnamese victim was taken
to the local police station to sign a
statement that [music] he wouldn't
complain against the company, which he
refused.
That was purely hogwash. So they were
trying to cover up the crimes happening
inside. I went to Bamban to secure that
Vietnamese national. They tried to take
him from me. Fortunately enough, I had
enough officers to be able to bring him
to Manila.
I got a call from the police ataché of
Malaysia. Yeah. Uh he informed me of
Dylan who was being held against his
will inside Vambadan.
So now I had two embassies who was
seeking my assistance. I was able to
apply for a search warrant.
I got the warrant at 5:20
p.m. [music] on March 12th.
So we ran into Bamban immediately after
that. Unfortunately, the operating unit
of the Philippine National Police were
not there yet.
And around 8 8:30 in the evening, they
told me there were one or two hours
away. To be honest, at that time, I felt
very nervous already because any hour or
two of delay will probably compromise
the operation. And indeed, I was
correct.
Chances are someone tipped them off.
When we arrived there, people were
moving out. We were less than 15. So I
just informed my personnel to just draw
their guns and make sure that nobody got
out of the compound.
While our group was on this side of the
fence, the big bosses, their families
were here. So they were here, we were
here, a wall separated us. You could
only imagine the tension.
The big boss was seated here. So he
walked all the way here. He viewed the
CCTV of what was happening outside while
we were grouping outside for the
operation.
>> They escaped.
The big boss never to be seen again.
[music]
Oh.
Yeah. [music]
[laughter]
[music]
This was the brain center of all the
operations.
Everything was conjured here.
downstairs you would see [music] an
underground tunnel.
They had very expensive wine here and I
guess Chinese herbal teas, concoctions
of different sorts.
And this would [music] lead to the
underground tunnel.
That's the door to the underground
tunnel. They had some sort of a panic
room.
The scam center at Bamban was so big it
covered several hectares of farmland.
The police arrested many criminals but
some of the masterminds escaped.
The investigation also took a surprising
turn.
The electric provider of the area
personnel came in gave to the guard a
electric bill. The bill is in the name
of Mayor Alice Go. I had to ask why is
the name in the name of the mayor? Uh
sir, uh it it's been like that for so
many years now. I said
it opened a Pandora's box.
As the investigations unfolded,
more and more questions became evident
about her background.
The Senate hearing that was called to
investigate the specific case of Bamban
Tarlac was in May 2024 and then Mayor
Alice Guo was invited to the hearing as
a resource person. a lot of times of the
hearings. I sit right at the back of
Senator Ottoveros and I assist her
source of funds.
As the Senate hearing went on, more
evidence [music] piled up about how
close Alisco was to the scam compound.
Apart from purchasing the farmland that
became the scam compound building, she
also helped incorporate the company.
And it was a shock that many of the
co-founders were Chinese.
Mayor Manaloing
or nasaing
poof, your honor involved in any
operation, your honor.
That day of the hearing, I was very
surprised to get a phone call from
somebody who worked in intelligence
services uh in the Philippines. This
person said, "We don't think she's
Filipino." And at the time, I was a
gasast. And I I couldn't believe [music]
it. How can somebody have the Kutza to
run for [music] mayor and make a
declaration of citizenship if she lied
about it?
Your honor,
your honor,
still out of more than curiosity,
elementary
school, your honor.
Farm,
homechool provider connecter.
Um, your honor
We were so incredulous. I think when I
say we, I mean the entire country
watching it because it is not possible
to forget these basic questions of your
childhood and your early life.
People just realize that they just got
to know her from her high school days.
But the past before high school, it was
blank. Our suspicions were up given the
way that she answered the questions and
that convinced us to dig further. She
also presented a birth certificate
identifying her father as Filipino, her
mother as Filipino, having a date of
marriage.
So to our great surprise, we found out
that not only were her parents never
married, but there is also no record of
them. So, Mayor Gua, why were you also
inconsistent about your fathership?
[music] Chinese passport holder.
>> Who is your mother? At the age of 12,
[music]
first,
the biggest question many Filipinos had
at the time. Was it really her? So
young, so innocent looking, could be
capable of hit so many crime behind her
facade.
And then evidence of her wealth started
coming in about her luxury cars, her
jewelry, even the clothes that she wore
came into scrutiny.
We wanted to dig deeper into how she was
able to amass so much wealth.
So we requested the incorporation
documents of Alice Gu's various
companies. In one of those companies, Ba
Fu listed incorporators are the name
Sang Ruin and Lin Bao Yin. [music]
And to our great surprise, when we
Googled the names, we found out about
the ongoing case in Singapore about
[music] them and that it was described
as the largest money laundering case in
Singapore.
All the criminals convicted for that
case, they were all held from Fujian
China just like Ali school. Madame Chair
po Chinese. Okay, Chinese. So taga sa
China
po investigators found many of Alisco's
financial transactions very unusual.
More than $200 million US flow to bank
accounts associated with her. [music] We
learned that a lot of the money went to
China.
Then suddenly the most absolute
confirmation came. The claim [music] of
Bombantarak mayor Alice go that she's a
Filipino shattered after the National
Bureau of Investigation confirmed that
her fingerprint is the same as Chinese
national goaing. Based on government
records, Gohaping is a Chinese national
who entered the Philippines on January
12, 2003 when she was 13 years old. Our
meeting number mayor Alice go was indeed
a Chinese little girl who entered the
Philippines. So her entire identity and
history was completely fabricated.
[music]
for
Senator Lisa wanted to invite her to a
third hearing, but she did not attend
and then she was no longer available in
Bomban.
>> Dismissed Bomban Mayor Alis Go otherwise
known as Chinese national [music] Goa
Ping left the Philippines in July.
>> Who allowed this travesty to happen?
complete outrage and disbelief that she
had managed to escape, that she had
managed to go past our borders.
President [music] Marcos ordering a
manhunt for her
>> after weeks of search dismissed Bambarak
Mayor Alice Go arrested in Indonesia.
>> Let this serve as a warning to those who
attempt to evade justice. The arm of the
law is long and it will reach you.
>> After she was sent back to the
Philippines, she was charged with human
trafficking and money laundering. She
denied everything.
>> Just one last time on this very simple
fundamental question.
confirm
while it was at its most popular. This
documentary came out where the testimony
of one Shrezi Jang was featured. Chuchu
Jing was a businessman and he allegedly
ran a very big scam compound at the
border of Myanmar and Thailand. He was
arrested in Bangkok at the request of
the Chinese government who also wants
him deported back to China. Shzi Jang
made the claim that he was in
communication with Guaing and that like
him, she was planted in the Philippines
by the Chinese government to basically
be their agent uh to gather
intelligence.
So far, Alisco has denied allegation
that she is a Chinese spy, but there's a
Filipino intelligence agency called her
an agent of influence.
And the Philippine military chief
accused China of using Pogo as a way to
infiltrate the Philippine society.
But so far, no one can find conclusive
evidence [music] that Alis Go is a
Chinese spy.
>> This is not over [music]
yet. Alis Go is not it all.
If we continue going through the
documents, chances [music] are we'll
find some bigger fish to fry. The grave
abuse and disrespect to our system of
laws must stop.
>> [applause and music]
>> effective today. All pogos are banned.
>> Alis Google was the Pandora's box
[music] that needed to happen for us to
be able to totally ban Pogos.
I'm not saying they're not in the
Philippines anymore because they are
still here.
>> Alice Guo is emblematic [music] of a
larger problem within the region.
What is the involvement of immigration?
What is the involvement of law
enforcement? [music]
What is the involvement of even the
highest officers of government? And I
think those are hard questions that the
region has to ask. Foreign
speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech.
>> [music]
>> Congressman, Governor
Chinese.
Hey Heat.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Oh no,